Hello and welcome back.
Of course violent programming.
Today we're finally looking at functions in Python.
I know we've already been working our functions so much and it feels like we know them so well that
even feels that we don't really need this tutorial but nevertheless let's solidify all of the knowledge
that we've gathered about around functions.
Talk about how they work what they're for and have a look at a couple of examples.
All right.
So how two functions work.
And first question Carol why do you have a blender and fruit and berries on this image.
Well because this in my head is one of the best representations of how functions work and what their
purpose is I think of a function as a blender you input fruit and berries into a blender and then you
click a button and it does its magic.
And in the end you have a wonderful delicious smoothie.
And that's what functions do.
So they take some inputs.
They perform some calculations or some other durations and then they give you an output which you further
use in your program for whatever purposes you like.
So they're a aggregator or a convenient modifier of the information that you pass on to them.
So let's have a quick look at some examples that functions that we've been working with and some a couple
of new function as well.
All right so where is our Python and notebooks.
There it is.
And let's get started.
So we already talked about quite a few functions I'm just going to mention a couple of them that we've
discussed before.
So first thing we're going to create a list right so how do we create a list.
We can either use the square brackets or we know over function we know function which has range.
So there is a range and it takes some parameters like a blender takes berries and fruit as inputs so
does the range function take parameters so let's say we want to start our range at 20 and we want to
go all the way up to 30 including 30 so we're going to put 31.
So you fire on that as we discussed in Python 3 we don't actually get a list.
We get a generator or iterator and therefore if one turned to list Babsy is another function.
So this function list will convert something into a list.
Right that's its purpose and that's the type of smoothies that it makes.
So that's what we're going to do we are going to take this range and we're going to pass it to that
list.
So if I run this now now I get a list.
Now I can use this and put it into a storage facility like the smoothy that you get from a blender you
put it into a gloss for example.
So here we go into say my least one and I'm going to pass it this output so for on this I get my list
one for on my list one now it contains that result so we started with these inputs Twain 10:31.
We got a range that range was an input for the next function which was a list and the list function
returned an actual list which we now have.
And we can use for other purposes.
And that's exactly what we're going to do.
So that's two functions that we talked about already.
Here's another one.
We know this function print.
So if we print my last one it will output it onto the screen.
There we go that's how we.
The proper way of printing things onto our screen.
Another function that we already kind of touched on is the len function.
So let's get the lenth of this list.
My last one.
There we go.
So that's tells us that there are 11 elements so as you can see we're passing this function Lenda quite
a lot of information we parsing it all these values.
And plus the indexation.
So there's a lot of information in this list and the output is just one number and that's the purpose
of that function.
It counts the number of elements and gives you that result.
Let's look at another function that say type so same thing.
My last one parsing the exact set the exact same inputs so you can see all these three cases repulsing
the same inputs Majlis one function print but this result is different to this result and it's going
to be different Pteris this result.
So here is just printing the list.
This one is telling us how many values and this one is telling what type of object we're dealing with
.
All right.
Great.
And let's have a look at two more so these are two new ones.
Very straightforward functions.
So Max if we take max of my list one will get the maximum value and it will take men of my list.
One we get the minimum value.
And also you can use max and min for other purposes you can pass values to them.
You can just pass them values not in a list.
You can say 11 403 7 some like that it will still work like that so this function can be passed the
list or just a series of values and so on.
So that is how functions work and a good point to make here is that the core of Python actually doesn't
have that many useful functions it's surprisingly very lean on content.
So and that is the design on purpose.
Python was created that way to make it as efficient as possible.
And then in order to expand the functions that are available to you need to include packages you need
to include add ons to your Piscean in order to make it more robust and to include more optimization
patches or mathematical packages of packages for doorframes and so on.
And that's what we're going to talk about in the next tutorial where we're talking about packages.
So hopefully functions are pretty straightforward.
And by now you're very comfortable with that we're ready.
Let's jump straight into the next tutorial and I'll see you there.
Until next time happy coding